Week 1 Materials 
################

:date: 2014-09-02
:summary: Introduction to Algebra 2, course format, figuring stuff out 
:category: lessons
:tags: overview, problems, linear, art, rates


=====
Day 1
=====

Algebra is about figuring stuff out.  It's not just about numbers, nor is it
just about "letters" or the particulars of how old Susie and Robert are.  It's
also about the use and creation of patterns, relationships, structure, and
abstraction as tools and as ends-in-themselves.  You probably don't ask why you
play a video game or make a painting, but you insist that math must be useful?
Math is awesome because it is an art *and* it is useful.

My personal goals for the year with you include that you might occasionally
enjoy a mathy game, and occasionally use math to figure out how to play it
better; that you improve your sense of numbers, of scale, of estimation, of
units and rates; that you grow more sophisticated in your approach to new
problems, including the tools of numbers, tables, guesses, graphs, models,
solutions, and equations; and that you both *create* math and that you can
offer critical feedback to your peers on their creations.

The grading system is designed with improvement in mind -- as in, you are
expected to struggle at first, and then to improve, and your final grade should
reflect your best performance, not just how well you did a week after learning
something the first time. Do not be discouraged by initial difficulty.  You can
still get an A.

We'll be doing some getting-started activities Thursday and Friday this week,
then we'll have a diagnostic pre-test on Monday, intended just to find out what
you already have down and what you don't.  The better you do on this pre-test,
the less time we will have to spend on pre-requisite stuff, and the more time
we will be able to spend on more interesting things...

The Cup Stacker
---------------

 1. What questions do you have?
 2. Can you offer some guesses/estimates for answers?
 3. What information do we need to have to answer this question?
 4. Figure it out!
 5. Compare answers -- are there other ways to do it?
 6. How did we do?  Check the results.



=====
Day 2
=====

How the course works:

 1. In and out of class practice
 2. Figuring stuff out (whiteboards and groups)
 3. Self-assessment (quizzes and practice)
 4. Prove that you've got it assessment (quizzes, tests, presentations, etc.)
 5. Class notebook / writing your own textbook
 6. Creating / curating / critiquing

The Gas Pump
------------

 1. What questions do you have?
 2. Can you offer some quesses/estimates for answers?
 3. What information do we need to have to answer this question?
 4. Figure it out!
 5. Compare answers/methods -- are there other ways to do it or to understand it?
 6. How did we do?

Mathematical Art
----------------

    .. youtube:: ES-yKOYaXq0
	:align: center

(just for fun for now, you'll understand most of that song by the end of the
year).  But if you do something cool that has mathematical content to it, and
you can show it and explain it to me or to the class -- I'll find a way to give
you credit for it.


 

 
